KEP 2: Python 3
===============

:Created: 2014-06-30
:Author: Brian May
:Status: Draft


Overview
--------
Support Python 2 and Python 3.

Rationale
---------
Python 2.7 is in bug fix mode, and not being further developed. We need
to support Python 3 if we want ensure Karaage remains relevant.

Implementation
--------------
Beforce we can start, we need to ensure that there are Debian python3 packages
of all the relevant libraries.

For each package, we need to:

*  All required libraries have also been updated.
*  Ensure code is compatable with Python 2.7, Python 3.2 and Python 3.4.
*  Debian packages for python3.
*  All tests run without failure.
*  All packages except for alogger to be included in Debian/sid, and hopefully
   Debian/jessie.
*  Package should be available on code.vpac.org, wheezy and sid.

Not started
-----------
*  python3-django-celery (requires python3-celery)

Debian New
----------
Fixed versions of the following packages are waiting in Debian new queue
for manual processing.

*  python3-django-captcha [`ITP <http://bugs.debian.org/752140>`_]
*  python3-tldap [`ITP <http://bugs.debian.org/753482>`_]
*  python3-django-nose
*  python3-celery [`Debian bug <http://bugs.debian.org/753555>`_]

Broken
------
*  python3-django-south. South is obsolete. Django 1.7 has a new migration
   system that is incompatable with South. All migrations will have to be
   carried out with Django 1.6 before upgrading to Django 1.7. Karaage 3.2.0
   will be the first version of Karaage to support Django 1.7.
*  python-kombu won't build on wheezy, which prevents compiling
   python3-celery and python3-django-celery for wheezy.

Done
----
The following packages are complete:

*  python-numpydoc (required by python3-matplotlib build)
*  python3-django [`Debian bug <http://bugs.debian.org/753556>`_].
*  python3-pil (required by python3-django-captcha).
*  python3-ajax-select
*  python3-django-xmlrpc [`ITP <http://bugs.debian.org/753481>`_]
*  python3-factory-boy [`Debian bug <http://bugs.debian.org/753558>`_]
*  python3-matplotlib
*  python3-django-tables2
*  python3-django-filters
*  python3-mysqldb (not done; depreciated, use mysql-connector instead)
*  python3-django-jsonfield

   *  `Upstream bug report
      <https://bitbucket.org/schinckel/django-jsonfield/issue/32/new-release-and-python3-support>`_.
   *  Latest release in Debian
      [`Debian bug <http://bugs.debian.org/753462>`_]
   *  All issues resolved.

*  python3-django-pipeline [`Debian bug <http://bugs.debian.org/753556>`_]
*  python3-alogger
*  python3-django-model-utils
*  python3-kombu [`Debian bug <https://bugs.debian.org/754047>`_]
